---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "artie_destination Resource - terraform-provider-artie"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Artie Destination resource. This represents a database or data warehouse that you want to replicate data to. Destinations are used by Deployments.
---

# artie_destination (Resource)

Artie Destination resource. This represents a database or data warehouse that you want to replicate data to. Destinations are used by Deployments.

## Example Usage

```terraform
variable "snowflake_password" {
  type      = string
  sensitive = true
}

resource "artie_destination" "snowflake" {
  type  = "snowflake"
  label = "Snowflake (Analytics)"
  snowflake_config = {
    account_url = "https://abc12345.snowflakecomputing.com"
    virtual_dwh = "compute_wh"
    username    = "user_abcd"
    password    = var.snowflake_password
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `type` (String) The type of destination database. This must be one of the following: `bigquery`, `redshift`, `s3`, `snowflake`.

### Optional

- `bigquery_config` (Attributes) This should be filled out if the destination type is `bigquery`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--bigquery_config))
- `data_plane_name` (String) The name of the data plane this destination is in (if applicable; this does not apply to cloud-based destinations like BigQuery and Snowflake). If this is not set, we will use the default data plane for your account. To see the full list of supported data planes on your account, click on `Create deployment` in our UI.
- `label` (String) An optional human-readable label for this destination.
- `mssql_config` (Attributes) This should be filled out if the destination type is `mssql`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--mssql_config))
- `redshift_config` (Attributes) This should be filled out if the destination type is `redshift`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--redshift_config))
- `s3_config` (Attributes) This should be filled out if the destination type is `s3`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--s3_config))
- `snowflake_config` (Attributes) This should be filled out if the destination type is `snowflake`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--snowflake_config))
- `ssh_tunnel_uuid` (String) This can point to an `artie_ssh_tunnel` resource if you need us to use an SSH tunnel to connect to your destination database. This can only be used if the destination is Redshift.

### Read-Only

- `uuid` (String)

<a id="nestedatt--bigquery_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `bigquery_config`

Required:

- `credentials_data` (String, Sensitive) The credentials data for the Google Cloud service account that we should use to connect to BigQuery. We recommend storing this in a secret manager and referencing it via a *sensitive* Terraform variable, instead of putting it in plaintext in your Terraform config file.
- `location` (String) The location of the BigQuery dataset. This must be either `US` or `EU`.
- `project_id` (String) The ID of the Google Cloud project.


<a id="nestedatt--mssql_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `mssql_config`

Required:

- `host` (String) The hostname of your Microsoft SQL Server.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the service account we will use to connect to the database. We recommend storing this in a secret manager and referencing it via a *sensitive* Terraform variable, instead of putting it in plaintext in your Terraform config file.
- `port` (Number) The default port for Microsoft SQL Server is 1433.
- `username` (String) The username of the service account we will use to connect to the database.


<a id="nestedatt--redshift_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `redshift_config`

Required:

- `endpoint` (String) The endpoint URL of your Redshift cluster. This should include both the host and port.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the service account we should use to connect to Redshift. We recommend storing this in a secret manager and referencing it via a *sensitive* Terraform variable, instead of putting it in plaintext in your Terraform config file.
- `username` (String) The username of the service account we should use to connect to Redshift.


<a id="nestedatt--s3_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `s3_config`

Required:

- `access_key_id` (String) The AWS Access Key ID for the service account we should use to connect to S3.
- `region` (String) The AWS region where we should store your data in S3.
- `secret_access_key` (String, Sensitive) The AWS Secret Access Key for the service account we should use to connect to S3. We recommend storing this in a secret manager and referencing it via a *sensitive* Terraform variable, instead of putting it in plaintext in your Terraform config file.


<a id="nestedatt--snowflake_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `snowflake_config`

Required:

- `account_url` (String) The URL of your Snowflake account.
- `username` (String) The username of the service account we should use to connect to Snowflake.
- `virtual_dwh` (String) The name of your Snowflake virtual data warehouse.

Optional:

- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the service account we should use to connect to Snowflake. Either `password` or `private_key` must be provided.
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive) The private key for the service account we should use to connect to Snowflake. Either `password` or `private_key` must be provided.
