docs/resources/destination.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "artie_destination Resource - artie"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Artie Destination resource
---

# artie_destination (Resource)

Artie Destination resource



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `type` (String)

### Optional

- `big_query_config` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--big_query_config))
- `label` (String)
- `redshift_config` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--redshift_config))
- `snowflake_config` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--snowflake_config))

### Read-Only

- `ssh_tunnel_uuid` (String)
- `uuid` (String)

<a id="nestedatt--big_query_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `big_query_config`

Required:

- `credentials_data` (String, Sensitive)
- `location` (String)
- `project_id` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--redshift_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `redshift_config`

Required:

- `endpoint` (String)
- `host` (String)
- `password` (String, Sensitive)
- `port` (Number)
- `username` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--snowflake_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `snowflake_config`

Required:

- `account_url` (String)
- `username` (String)
- `virtual_dwh` (String)

Optional:

- `password` (String, Sensitive)
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive)

Commit message:

Add descriptions to schema fields for destination resource (#58)

docs/resources/destination.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "artie_destination Resource - artie"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Artie Destination resource
---

# artie_destination (Resource)

Artie Destination resource



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `type` (String) The type of destination database. This must be one of the following: `bigquery`, `redshift`, or `snowflake`.

### Optional

- `bigquery_config` (Attributes) This should be filled out if the destination type is `bigquery`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--bigquery_config))
- `label` (String) An optional human-readable label for this destination.
- `redshift_config` (Attributes) This should be filled out if the destination type is `redshift`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--redshift_config))
- `snowflake_config` (Attributes) This should be filled out if the destination type is `snowflake`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--snowflake_config))

### Read-Only

- `ssh_tunnel_uuid` (String) This can point to an `artie_ssh_tunnel` resource if you need us to use an SSH tunnel to connect to your destination database. This can only be used if the destination is Redshift.
- `uuid` (String)

<a id="nestedatt--bigquery_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `bigquery_config`

Required:

- `credentials_data` (String, Sensitive) The credentials data for the Google Cloud service account that we should use to connect to BigQuery. We recommend storing this in a secret manager and referencing it via a *sensitive* Terraform variable, instead of putting it in plaintext in your Terraform config file.
- `location` (String) The location of the BigQuery dataset. This must be either `US` or `EU`.
- `project_id` (String) The ID of the Google Cloud project.


<a id="nestedatt--redshift_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `redshift_config`

Required:

- `endpoint` (String) The endpoint URL of your Redshift cluster. This should include both the host and port.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the service account we should use to connect to Redshift.
- `username` (String) The username of the service account we should use to connect to Redshift.


<a id="nestedatt--snowflake_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `snowflake_config`

Required:

- `account_url` (String) The URL of your Snowflake account.
- `username` (String) The username of the service account we should use to connect to Snowflake.
- `virtual_dwh` (String) The name of your Snowflake virtual data warehouse.

Optional:

- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the service account we should use to connect to Snowflake. Either `password` or `private_key` must be provided.
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive) The private key for the service account we should use to connect to Snowflake. Either `password` or `private_key` must be provided.
