docs/resources/pipeline.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "artie_pipeline Resource - terraform-provider-artie"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Artie Pipeline resource. This represents a pipeline that syncs data from a single source (e.g., Postgres) to a single destination (e.g., Snowflake).
---

# artie_pipeline (Resource)

Artie Pipeline resource. This represents a pipeline that syncs data from a single source (e.g., Postgres) to a single destination (e.g., Snowflake).

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "artie_pipeline" "postgres_to_snowflake" {
  name               = "PostgreSQL to Snowflake"
  source_reader_uuid = artie_source_reader.postgres.uuid
  tables = {
    "public.account" = {
      name                = "account"
      schema              = "public"
      enable_history_mode = true
    },
    "public.company" = {
      name   = "company"
      schema = "public"
    }
  }
  destination_connector_uuid = artie_connector.snowflake.uuid
  destination_config = {
    database = "ANALYTICS"
    schema   = "PUBLIC"
  }
  soft_delete_rows                = true
  include_artie_updated_at_column = true
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `destination_config` (Attributes) This contains configuration that pertains to the destination database but is specific to this pipeline. The basic connection settings for the destination, which can be shared by multiple pipelines, are stored in the corresponding `artie_connector` resource. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--destination_config))
- `destination_connector_uuid` (String) This must point to an `artie_connector` resource that represents the destination database.
- `name` (String) The human-readable name of the pipeline. This is used only as a label and can contain any characters.
- `source_reader_uuid` (String) This must point to an `artie_source_reader` resource.
- `tables` (Attributes Map) A map of tables from the source database that you want to replicate to the destination. The key for each table should be formatted as `schema_name.table_name` if your source database uses schemas, otherwise just `table_name`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tables))

### Optional

- `data_plane_name` (String) The name of the data plane to use for this pipeline. If this is not set, we will use the default data plane for your account. To see the full list of supported data planes on your account, click on 'New pipeline' in our UI.
- `default_source_schema` (String) If set, tables from this schema will not be prefixed with this schema name in the destination. Tables from other schemas will be prefixed with their source schema name to avoid table name collisions (unless `use_same_schema_as_source` is set to true). This is currently only applicable if the source is MySQL.
- `drop_deleted_columns` (Boolean) If set to true, when a column is dropped from the source it will also be dropped in the destination.
- `flush_rules` (Attributes) This contains rules for how often Artie should flush data to the destination. If not specified, Artie will provide default values. A flush will happen when any of the rules are met (e.g. 30 seconds since the last flush OR 150k rows OR 50MB of data). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--flush_rules))
- `include_artie_updated_at_column` (Boolean) If set to true, Artie will add a new column called `__artie_updated_at` to the destination table to indicate when the row was last updated by Artie.
- `include_database_updated_at_column` (Boolean) If set to true, Artie will add a new column called `__artie_db_updated_at` to the destination table to indicate when the row was last updated by the source database.
- `soft_delete_rows` (Boolean) If set to true, when a row is deleted from the source it will not be deleted from the destination. Instead, a new boolean column called `__artie_delete` will be added to the destination table to indicate which rows have been deleted in the source.

### Read-Only

- `snowflake_eco_schedule_uuid` (String) If the pipeline's destination is Snowflake, this can point to a Snowflake Eco Mode Schedule that will be used to adjust the pipeline's flush rules according to a schedule. This can currently only be configured via our UI.
- `uuid` (String)

<a id="nestedatt--destination_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `destination_config`

Optional:

- `bucket` (String) The name of the S3 or GCS bucket that data should be synced to. This should be filled if the destination is S3 or GCS.
- `database` (String) The name of the database that data should be synced to in the destination. This should be filled if the destination is MS SQL or Snowflake, unless `use_same_schema_as_source` is set to true.
- `dataset` (String) The name of the dataset that data should be synced to in the destination. This should be filled if the destination is BigQuery.
- `folder` (String) If provided, all files will be stored under this folder inside the S3 or GCS bucket. This is optional and only applies if the destination is S3 or GCS.
- `schema` (String) The name of the schema that data should be synced to in the destination. This should be filled if the destination is MS SQL, Redshift, or Snowflake (unless `use_same_schema_as_source` is set to true).
- `schema_name_prefix` (String) If `use_same_schema_as_source` is enabled, this prefix will be added to each schema name in the destination. This is useful if you want to namespace all of this pipeline's schemas in the destination.
- `table_name_separator` (String) If provided, this is the separator between database, schema and table name. This is only applicable if the destination is S3 or GCS.
- `use_same_schema_as_source` (Boolean) If set to true, each table from the source database will be synced to a schema with the same name as its source schema. This can only be used if both the source and destination support multiple schemas (e.g. PostgreSQL, Redshift, Snowflake, etc).


<a id="nestedatt--tables"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tables`

Required:

- `name` (String) The name of the table in the source database.

Optional:

- `alias` (String) An optional alias for the table. If set, this will be the name of the destination table.
- `columns_to_exclude` (List of String) An optional list of columns to exclude from syncing to the destination.
- `columns_to_hash` (List of String) An optional list of columns to hash in the destination. Values for these columns will be obscured with a one-way hash.
- `columns_to_include` (List of String) An optional list of columns to include in replication. If not provided, all columns will be replicated. A pipeline can only have one of `columns_to_include` or `columns_to_exclude` set in any of its tables.
- `enable_history_mode` (Boolean) If set to true, we will create an additional table in the destination (suffixed with `__history`) to store all changes to the source table over time.
- `is_partitioned` (Boolean) If the source table is partitioned, set this to true and we will ingest data from all of its partitions. You may also need to customize `partition_suffix_regex_pattern` on the source reader.
- `merge_predicates` (Attributes List) Optional: if the destination table is partitioned, specify the partition column(s) and type. This helps merge performance and currently only applies to Snowflake and BigQuery. For BigQuery, only one column can be specified and it may be either a time-partitioned or an integer range-partitioned column; set `partition_type` to 'time' or 'integer' accordingly. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tables--merge_predicates))
- `schema` (String) The name of the schema the table belongs to in the source database. This must be specified if your source database uses schemas (such as PostgreSQL), e.g. `public`.
- `skip_deletes` (Boolean) If set to true, we will skip delete events for this table and only process insert and update events.
- `soft_partitioning` (Attributes) Optional: configuration for soft partitioning of the destination table. This can improve query performance for large tables by partitioning data based on a specified column. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tables--soft_partitioning))
- `unify_across_databases` (Boolean) If set to true, we will replicate tables with the same name and schema name from all specified databases into the same destination table. This is only applicable if the source reader has `enable_unify_across_databases` set to true and `databases_to_unify` filled.
- `unify_across_schemas` (Boolean) If set to true, we will replicate tables with the same name from all schemas into the same destination table. This is only applicable if the source reader has `enable_unify_across_schemas` set to true. You should still specify a schema name where this table exists; we will use that schema to fetch metadata for the table and validate its configuration.

Read-Only:

- `uuid` (String)

<a id="nestedatt--tables--merge_predicates"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tables.merge_predicates`

Required:

- `partition_field` (String) The name of the column the destination table is partitioned by.

Optional:

- `partition_type` (String) The type of partition to use. One of 'time' or 'integer'. Required for BigQuery.


<a id="nestedatt--tables--soft_partitioning"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tables.soft_partitioning`

Required:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether soft partitioning is enabled for this table.
- `max_partitions` (Number) The maximum number of partitions to maintain.
- `partition_column` (String) The column to use for soft partitioning. To prevent duplicate rows, the partition column should be immutable, for example `created_at`.
- `partition_frequency` (String) The frequency of partitioning ('monthly' and 'daily' are supported).



<a id="nestedatt--flush_rules"></a>
### Nested Schema for `flush_rules`

Optional:

- `buffer_rows` (Number) The number of rows to buffer before flushing to the destination.
- `flush_interval_seconds` (Number) The flush interval in seconds for how often Artie should flush data to the destination.
- `flush_size_kb` (Number) The size in kb of data to buffer before flushing to the destination.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
# Import a pipeline by using its UUID, which you can find by:
# 1. Go to the pipeline overview page in the Artie UI
# 2. Open the dropdown in the top right corner
# 3. Select "View UUIDs" to see all related resource UUIDs
terraform import artie_pipeline.my_pipeline <pipeline_uuid>

# Then print the state and copy it into your terraform config file
# (be sure to remove all read-only fields, like `uuid`):
terraform state show artie_pipeline.my_pipeline
```

Commit message:

Add api source type and SplitEventsByType setting (#259)

docs/resources/pipeline.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "artie_pipeline Resource - terraform-provider-artie"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Artie Pipeline resource. This represents a pipeline that syncs data from a single source (e.g., Postgres) to a single destination (e.g., Snowflake).
---

# artie_pipeline (Resource)

Artie Pipeline resource. This represents a pipeline that syncs data from a single source (e.g., Postgres) to a single destination (e.g., Snowflake).

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "artie_pipeline" "postgres_to_snowflake" {
  name               = "PostgreSQL to Snowflake"
  source_reader_uuid = artie_source_reader.postgres.uuid
  tables = {
    "public.account" = {
      name                = "account"
      schema              = "public"
      enable_history_mode = true
    },
    "public.company" = {
      name   = "company"
      schema = "public"
    }
  }
  destination_connector_uuid = artie_connector.snowflake.uuid
  destination_config = {
    database = "ANALYTICS"
    schema   = "PUBLIC"
  }
  soft_delete_rows                = true
  include_artie_updated_at_column = true
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `destination_config` (Attributes) This contains configuration that pertains to the destination database but is specific to this pipeline. The basic connection settings for the destination, which can be shared by multiple pipelines, are stored in the corresponding `artie_connector` resource. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--destination_config))
- `destination_connector_uuid` (String) This must point to an `artie_connector` resource that represents the destination database.
- `name` (String) The human-readable name of the pipeline. This is used only as a label and can contain any characters.
- `source_reader_uuid` (String) This must point to an `artie_source_reader` resource.
- `tables` (Attributes Map) A map of tables from the source database that you want to replicate to the destination. The key for each table should be formatted as `schema_name.table_name` if your source database uses schemas, otherwise just `table_name`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tables))

### Optional

- `data_plane_name` (String) The name of the data plane to use for this pipeline. If this is not set, we will use the default data plane for your account. To see the full list of supported data planes on your account, click on 'New pipeline' in our UI.
- `default_source_schema` (String) If set, tables from this schema will not be prefixed with this schema name in the destination. Tables from other schemas will be prefixed with their source schema name to avoid table name collisions (unless `use_same_schema_as_source` is set to true). This is currently only applicable if the source is MySQL.
- `drop_deleted_columns` (Boolean) If set to true, when a column is dropped from the source it will also be dropped in the destination.
- `flush_rules` (Attributes) This contains rules for how often Artie should flush data to the destination. If not specified, Artie will provide default values. A flush will happen when any of the rules are met (e.g. 30 seconds since the last flush OR 150k rows OR 50MB of data). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--flush_rules))
- `include_artie_updated_at_column` (Boolean) If set to true, Artie will add a new column called `__artie_updated_at` to the destination table to indicate when the row was last updated by Artie.
- `include_database_updated_at_column` (Boolean) If set to true, Artie will add a new column called `__artie_db_updated_at` to the destination table to indicate when the row was last updated by the source database.
- `soft_delete_rows` (Boolean) If set to true, when a row is deleted from the source it will not be deleted from the destination. Instead, a new boolean column called `__artie_delete` will be added to the destination table to indicate which rows have been deleted in the source.
- `split_events_by_type` (Boolean) If set to true, Artie will split events by type and store them in separate tables. This is only applicable if the source is API.

### Read-Only

- `snowflake_eco_schedule_uuid` (String) If the pipeline's destination is Snowflake, this can point to a Snowflake Eco Mode Schedule that will be used to adjust the pipeline's flush rules according to a schedule. This can currently only be configured via our UI.
- `uuid` (String)

<a id="nestedatt--destination_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `destination_config`

Optional:

- `bucket` (String) The name of the S3 or GCS bucket that data should be synced to. This should be filled if the destination is S3 or GCS.
- `database` (String) The name of the database that data should be synced to in the destination. This should be filled if the destination is MS SQL or Snowflake, unless `use_same_schema_as_source` is set to true.
- `dataset` (String) The name of the dataset that data should be synced to in the destination. This should be filled if the destination is BigQuery.
- `folder` (String) If provided, all files will be stored under this folder inside the S3 or GCS bucket. This is optional and only applies if the destination is S3 or GCS.
- `schema` (String) The name of the schema that data should be synced to in the destination. This should be filled if the destination is MS SQL, Redshift, or Snowflake (unless `use_same_schema_as_source` is set to true).
- `schema_name_prefix` (String) If `use_same_schema_as_source` is enabled, this prefix will be added to each schema name in the destination. This is useful if you want to namespace all of this pipeline's schemas in the destination.
- `table_name_separator` (String) If provided, this is the separator between database, schema and table name. This is only applicable if the destination is S3 or GCS.
- `use_same_schema_as_source` (Boolean) If set to true, each table from the source database will be synced to a schema with the same name as its source schema. This can only be used if both the source and destination support multiple schemas (e.g. PostgreSQL, Redshift, Snowflake, etc).


<a id="nestedatt--tables"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tables`

Required:

- `name` (String) The name of the table in the source database.

Optional:

- `alias` (String) An optional alias for the table. If set, this will be the name of the destination table.
- `columns_to_exclude` (List of String) An optional list of columns to exclude from syncing to the destination.
- `columns_to_hash` (List of String) An optional list of columns to hash in the destination. Values for these columns will be obscured with a one-way hash.
- `columns_to_include` (List of String) An optional list of columns to include in replication. If not provided, all columns will be replicated. A pipeline can only have one of `columns_to_include` or `columns_to_exclude` set in any of its tables.
- `enable_history_mode` (Boolean) If set to true, we will create an additional table in the destination (suffixed with `__history`) to store all changes to the source table over time.
- `is_partitioned` (Boolean) If the source table is partitioned, set this to true and we will ingest data from all of its partitions. You may also need to customize `partition_suffix_regex_pattern` on the source reader.
- `merge_predicates` (Attributes List) Optional: if the destination table is partitioned, specify the partition column(s) and type. This helps merge performance and currently only applies to Snowflake and BigQuery. For BigQuery, only one column can be specified and it may be either a time-partitioned or an integer range-partitioned column; set `partition_type` to 'time' or 'integer' accordingly. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tables--merge_predicates))
- `schema` (String) The name of the schema the table belongs to in the source database. This must be specified if your source database uses schemas (such as PostgreSQL), e.g. `public`.
- `skip_deletes` (Boolean) If set to true, we will skip delete events for this table and only process insert and update events.
- `soft_partitioning` (Attributes) Optional: configuration for soft partitioning of the destination table. This can improve query performance for large tables by partitioning data based on a specified column. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tables--soft_partitioning))
- `unify_across_databases` (Boolean) If set to true, we will replicate tables with the same name and schema name from all specified databases into the same destination table. This is only applicable if the source reader has `enable_unify_across_databases` set to true and `databases_to_unify` filled.
- `unify_across_schemas` (Boolean) If set to true, we will replicate tables with the same name from all schemas into the same destination table. This is only applicable if the source reader has `enable_unify_across_schemas` set to true. You should still specify a schema name where this table exists; we will use that schema to fetch metadata for the table and validate its configuration.

Read-Only:

- `uuid` (String)

<a id="nestedatt--tables--merge_predicates"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tables.merge_predicates`

Required:

- `partition_field` (String) The name of the column the destination table is partitioned by.

Optional:

- `partition_type` (String) The type of partition to use. One of 'time' or 'integer'. Required for BigQuery.


<a id="nestedatt--tables--soft_partitioning"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tables.soft_partitioning`

Required:

- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether soft partitioning is enabled for this table.
- `max_partitions` (Number) The maximum number of partitions to maintain.
- `partition_column` (String) The column to use for soft partitioning. To prevent duplicate rows, the partition column should be immutable, for example `created_at`.
- `partition_frequency` (String) The frequency of partitioning ('monthly' and 'daily' are supported).



<a id="nestedatt--flush_rules"></a>
### Nested Schema for `flush_rules`

Optional:

- `buffer_rows` (Number) The number of rows to buffer before flushing to the destination.
- `flush_interval_seconds` (Number) The flush interval in seconds for how often Artie should flush data to the destination.
- `flush_size_kb` (Number) The size in kb of data to buffer before flushing to the destination.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
# Import a pipeline by using its UUID, which you can find by:
# 1. Go to the pipeline overview page in the Artie UI
# 2. Open the dropdown in the top right corner
# 3. Select "View UUIDs" to see all related resource UUIDs
terraform import artie_pipeline.my_pipeline <pipeline_uuid>

# Then print the state and copy it into your terraform config file
# (be sure to remove all read-only fields, like `uuid`):
terraform state show artie_pipeline.my_pipeline
```
